# Exploring the Unknown: Searching for Unusual Objects with the James Webb Space Telescope 🔭
## Abstract:
This project presents an investigation into the search for unusual objects from new James Webb Space Telescope (JWST) observations. Unusual objects offer valuable insights into the nature of the universe. By identifying and studying these anomalies, new phenomena can be discovered, existing theories can be refined, and our understanding of the universe can be expanded. The data used is a catalogue from the Cosmic Evolution Early Release Science (CEERS) survey, which uses Near-Infrared Camera (NIRCam) imaging to search for high redshift galaxies. This project displays the comparison of archival observations from the Hubble Space Telescope (HST) to the recent observations made by JWST. The goal is to find objects that are fully observed by JWST but are very faint or not observed by HST. These objects will have dramatically changed or suddenly appeared in the 15 years between the HST and JWST observations. Moreover, this project outlines the analysis of inspecting the spectral energy distributions (SEDs) of the objects in the CEERS catalogue, to search for sources with unusual spectral signatures. A mathematical metric called Euclidean distance is used to compare the recorded flux at given infra-red wavelengths to the average flux of the dataset. Both parts of the project give convincing results for the presence of unusual objects using the two methods described. It is suggested that further analysis, of the objects that are selected as unusual, is necessary to create a more detailed description of the objects and to understand what makes them unusual.
### Read the full report [here](MPhys_FYP_Report_217867.pdf)
### Project code avaliable [here](Code)
